= Ruby \Sudo

Give Ruby objects superuser privileges.

Based on dRuby[http://ruby-doc.org/ruby-1.9/classes/DRb.html] and 
sudo[http://www.sudo.ws/].

Only tested with {MRI 1.9}[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ruby_MRI] .

== REQUIREMENTS

Your user must be allowed, in +/etc/sudoers+, to run +ruby+ and +kill+
commands as root.

A password will be required from the console, or not, depending on
the +NOPASSWD+ options in +/etc/sudoers+.

== USAGE

Let's start with a trivial example:

  require 'mygem/myclass'
  require 'sudo'

  obj   = MyGem::MyClass.new


Now, create a Sudo::Wrapper object:

  sudo  = Sudo::Wrapper.new


Start the sudo-ed Ruby process:

  # 'mygem/myclass' will be automatically required in the 
  # sudo DRb server 

  sudo.start! 


Use it!

  sudo[obj].my_instance_method 
  sudo[MyClass].my_class_method


When you've done, +stop!+ it. Otherwise, that will be done (only) when 
the +sudo+ object gets garbage-collected.

  sudo.stop!

=== With a block

Use Sudo::Wrapper::run in this case.

  require 'fileutils'
  require 'sudo'

  Sudo::Wrapper.run do |sudo|
    sudo[FileUtils].mkdir_p '/ONLY/ROOT/CAN/DO/THAT'
  end
  # Sockets and processes are closed automatically when the block exits

== PRINCIPLES OF OPERATION

Spawns a sudo-ed Ruby process running a 
DRb[http://ruby-doc.org/ruby-1.9/classes/DRb.html] server. Communication is
done via a Unix socket (and, of course, permissions are set to +0600+).

No long-running daemons involved, everything is created on demand.

Access control is entirely delegated to +sudo+.

== TODO

+sudo+ has a +-A+ option to accept password via an external program
(maybe graphical): support this feature.

== CREDITS 

=== AUTHOR

{Guido De Rosa}[http://github.com/gderosa/].

Sponsored by {VEMAR s.a.s.}[http://www.vemarsas.it/].

=== CONTRIBUTORS

{Robert M. Koch}[http://github.com/threadmetal/].

=== THANKS

Thanks to Tony Arcieri and Brian Candler for suggestions on 
ruby-talk[http://www.ruby-forum.com/topic/262655].

=== COPYRIGHT

(The MIT License)

Copyright (c) 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013 Guido De Rosa

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
'Software'), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED 'AS IS', WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,
TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE
SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
